			    ORIGIN OF CODE
			    **************

    The contribution of many people is acknowledged (the following list
    is not exhaustive!).

calelm: low level routines (INRIA).

control: LINPACK + EISPACK + INRIA routines.
         dsubsp and exchnqz: Paul van Dooren.
         rpoly: copyrighted by the ACM (alg. 493), which grants
                 general permission to distribute provided 
                 the copies are not made for direct commercial advantage. 
         lybsc, lydsr, lybad,sydsr and sybad are adapted from SLICE 
                (M. Denham).
         sszer: Emami-naeini, A. and van Dooren, P. (Automatica paper).
         syhsc: G.Golub, S.Nash, C.van Loan, Stanford University.
         rilac, ricd: A. Laub.
         dexpm1, pade, dclmat, coef, cerr, wexpm1, wpade, wclmat: J. Roche.
         polmc: adapted from P.Hr. Petkov, Sofia, Bulgaria.
         bdiag: adapted from Bavely and Stewart.
         ereduc,fstair: T. Beelen, P. Van Dooren.

default: Scilab routines (INRIA/ENPC) for the user.  Funtab.c
	 (J.P.Chancelier) is derived from an hash table code from The
	 University of California, Berkeley.

dcd: Library of Fortran Routines for Cumulative Distribution
         Functions, Inverses, and Other Parameters (February, 1994)
         Barry W. Brown, James Lovato, Kathy Russell Department of
         Biomathematics, Box 237, The University of Texas,
         M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. 1515 Holcombe
         Boulevard. Houston, TX 77030.
     Interfaced by J.P Chancelier and B. Pinçon.

dld: is a library package of C functions that performs "dynamic link
         editing" from Wilson Ho (how@cs.ucdavis.edu). It is used on
         the linux version of scilab.

FreeBSD port: by Dan McMahill.

graphics: Scilab graphics routines by Jean-Philippe Chancelier (Enpc).

graphics based on entities: INRIA (M. Philippe, D. Abdemouche).
 
integ: routines from Odepack and Quadpack.
         dassl: L. Petzold (LLNL).
         hybrd: Minpack (ANL).
	 routines colnew from U. Ascher and G. Bader

interf: Scilab interface with numerical libraries (INRIA/ENPC).

menusX: Scilab menus (J.P.Chancelier/INRIA).

metanet: routines for network analysis (Metanet, INRIA and many public
         programs).

optim: optimization routines (Modulopt library, INRIA).
         quapro: E. Casas Renteria & C. Pola Mendez (Universidad de Cantabria).
         semidef: L. Vandenberghe- S. Boyd code (sp.c, see copyright notice in
         /routines/optim).

poly: Scilab polynomial library (INRIA).

PDE Scicos palette: developped by  EADS-CCR.

pvm: interface routines with PVM developed by ReMaP and Resedas projects 
     at INRIA.

qsort: qsort.c ( quicksort from the University of California Berkeley) 
       modified for Scilab.

randlib: Library of Fortran Routines for Random Number Generation
	  Barry W. Brown, James Lovato, Kathy Russell, John Venier.

scipad: an embedded text editor scipad derived from TkNotepad
        (http://home.earthlink.net/~joseph-ja/programs.html#Tcl-Tk) and improved by
        Enrico Segre and François Vogel, two Scilab Developers to take
        an active part in Scilab development.

SciGui: a tcl gui environment developed by Jaime Urzua: jaime_urzua@yahoo.com
	used for the help browser, waitbar and editvar 

signal: routines from IEEE Signal processing library.

Slicot : automatic control routines (www.win.tue.nl/wgs/slicot.html)

sparse: Operations on sparse matrices (S. Steer INRIA)

         sparse Lu factorization and resolution comes from Sparse 1.3
         by Kenneth S. Kundert, Alberto Sangiovanni-Vincentelli and
         the University of California (see Copyright notice in
         programs of the "sparse" directory). The code was modified to
         work with singular matrices (J.P.Chancelier). lu.c
         (INRIA/ENPC)

	 sparse Cholesky factorization codes are by Joseph W.H. Liu
         and Esmond G. Ng and Barry W. Peyton from Mathematical
         Sciences Section, Oak Ridge National Laboratory

	 routines to read .mps file (sparse linear programming) are from 
         J. Gondzio (Hopdm).

os_specific: system specific Scilab routines (INRIA/ENPC). 
         link.c ,link*.c: dynamic linking of programs for differents 
         architectures (Erlich,Chancelier) link_linux.c was initiated 
         by B.Lapeyre.
         zzledt.c is from Mitchell and Gauthier ass.

tksci: interface with TCL/TK (obsolete) developed by Bertrand Guiheneuf.

tclsci: interface with TCL/TK developed by Allan CORNET.

X11: optionnal Xaw and Xmu routines  (from MIT X11 distribution).

xsci: top level window and utilities using code from: xterm, xxgdb, xfig 
	 combined and modified by J.P. Chancelier.

wsci: Scilab programs for the windows version derived from 
         gnuplot/gsview (gvwprn.c) and emacs (runemacs.c) (J.P.Chancelier).
